'''< Данная статья еще недопереведена! Английский оригинал можно прочесть [http://wiki.wesnoth.org/EffectWML тут] >'''


Тег [effect] используется для описания одной модификации бойца. Any number of [effect] tags can be used to describe a complete modification. Modifications are permanent changes to a unit; currently there is no way of removing a modification.

Поддерживаются следующие теги и аттрибуты:
* '''[filter]''': only apply this effect if the affected unit matches. См. [[StandardUnitFilter]].
* '''unit_type''': only apply this effect if the affected unit's type name matches the value. (can be a list)
* '''unit_gender''': only apply this effect if the affected unit's gender name matches the value. (can be a list)
* '''times''': describes how many times the effect is applied. The default is to apply the effect once. Other possible value : "per level" which means that the effect is applied level times, where level is the unit level.
* '''apply_to''': describes what the effect actually affects.
[effect] uses different keys depending on the value of '''apply_to'''.  '''apply_to''' can take the following values:
* '''new_attack''': will use all other keys and tags as the description of an attack that will be added to the unit. See [attack] in [[UnitTypeWML#Attacks|UnitTypeWML]].
* '''remove_attacks''': remove the matching attacks. All tags from the attack filter construct will be used to match the attack; see [[FilterWML#Filtering Weapons|FilterWML]]. Do not use a [filter] tag otherwise it will not work properly.
* '''attack''': find an attack and modify it.  All tags from the attack filter construct will be used to match the attack; see [[FilterWML#Filtering Weapons|FilterWML]].  After that, the following keys and tags can be used to modify the attack.  Note: do not use a [filter] tag.  Just put the keys you want to filter on inside the [effect] tag.
** '''set_name''': изменяет идентификатор атаки.
** '''set_description''': изменяет отображаемое наименование атаки.
** '''set_type''': изменяет тип повреждений атаки. Стандартные значение: '''blade''', '''pierce''', '''impact''', '''fire''', '''cold''' и '''arcane'''.
** '''[set_specials]''': change the attack's specials. The specials to add are given exactly as in the [specials] tag.
*** '''mode''': if '''append''', adds the given specials to the attack. If '''replace''', replaces the existing specials with the given ones. Default '''replace'''.
** '''remove_specials''': remove the listed specials. The value of this key is the coma-separated list of the id of the specials to remove. This key is always evaluated before a [set_specials] tags in the same [effect]
** '''increase_damage''': increases the attack's damage.  This can be positive or negative, so you can use it to decrease damage as well.  If it ends in a percent(''''%''''), the change in damage will be a percentage ratio of the attack's original damage.
** '''increase_attacks''': increases the number of attack strikes. Like '''increase_damage''', it can be positive or negative, or a percentage.
** '''attack_weight''': change the attack's attack_weight. See [attack] in [[UnitTypeWML#Attacks|UnitTypeWML]] for explanations about attack_weight.
** '''defense_weight''': change the attack's defense_weight. See [attack] in [[UnitTypeWML#Attacks|UnitTypeWML]] for explanations about defense_weight.
* '''hitpoints''': модифицирует текущее и/или максимальное здоровье бойца.
** '''increase''': увеличивает текущие ЗД на указанное значение.
** '''heal_full''': при установке в 'yes' здоровье бойца полностью восстанавливается.
** '''increase_total''': увеличивает максимальное ЗД на указанное число. Можно использовать как положительные, так и отрицательные значения. Также можно указывать в процентах от максимального, т.е. "-50%" отнимет у бойца половину здоровья.
** '''violate_maximum''': it the unit ends up with more than its max HP after these modifications, and this key is present (set to any non-null value, ex. '''yes'''), the unit's HP won't be lowered to its max HP.
* '''movement''': изменяет единицы передвижения бойца.
** '''increase''': maximum movement is increased by this amount. It can be positive, negative, or specified as a percentage.
** '''set''': maximum movement is set to a specific value.
* {{DevFeature1.11}} '''experience''': affects the unit's current XP.
** '''increase''': current XP is increased by this amount. It can be positive, negative, or specified as a percentage.
** '''set''': current XP is set to a specific value.
* '''max_experience''': affects the amount of XP the unit needs for the next level.
** '''increase''': how to change the xp; again it can be negative, positive or a percentage.
* '''loyal''': no keys associated. The affected unit will be loyal i.e have an upkeep of 0.
* '''movement_costs''': speed through specific terrain is modified
** '''replace''': If set to "true", any new values replace the old ones. Otherwise, new values are added to old values (negative values allowed).
** '''[movement_costs]''': a subtag that describes the new movement costs just like in [[UnitsWML#.5Bmovetype.5D|UnitsWML]]
* '''defense''': Sets unit chance to be hit in specific terrain (100 - defense value)
** '''replace''': If set to "true", any new values replace the old ones. Otherwise, new values are added to old values (negative values allowed).
** '''[defense]''': a subtag that describes the new defense just like in [[UnitsWML#.5Bmovetype.5D|UnitsWML]]
* '''resistance''': Sets percent damage taken from combat
** '''replace''': If set to "true", any new values replace the old ones. Otherwise, new values are added to old values (negative values allowed).
** '''[resistance]''': a subtag that describes the new resistance just like in [[UnitsWML#.5Bmovetype.5D|UnitsWML]]
* '''variation''': switches the unit into one of its variations.
** '''name''': the id of the variation to invoke.
* '''type''': transforms the unit into a new unit_type.
** '''name''': the id of the unit_type to invoke.
* '''status''': modifies the status affecting the unit.
** '''add''': a list of status modifications to add. Beware, these may be reapplied later, such as when the unit is recalled or levels up; if in an event, you can use [[InternalActionsWML|[store_unit]]] and [[DirectActionsWML|[unstore_unit]]], modifying unit.status.name directly, to avoid this, or if you are creating the unit, you can just add it to the unit's [status] tag in the [unit] tag.  These are listed in [status], [[SingleUnitWML]].
** '''remove''': a list of status modifications to remove.
* '''zoc''': toggle the zone of control.
** '''value''': new value for zoc (0=disable, other=enable).
* '''profile''': customize the profile of the unit. See [[UnitTypeWML]].
** '''portrait''': new image to display when the unit speaks.
** '''small_portrait''': new image to display in unit reports.
** '''description''': sets the text to display when hovering over the unit's type in the righthand pane.
* '''new_ability''': Adds one or more abilities to a unit.
** '''[abilities]''': A subtag that contains the ability definitions.
* '''remove_ability''': Removes one or more abilities from a unit. Abilities are not reference counted: added, added, removed = gone.
** '''[abilities]''': A subtag that contains the ability definitions. Strictly speaking, all that is needed is the id= inside some tag.
* '''new_animation''': contain animations that will be added to the unit, it can contain multiple animation blocks, and a single "id=" line. That Id should be unique for each effect block and is used by the engine to reuse WML parsing, making the loading faster.
* '''image_mod''': modify the image path function ([[ImagePathFunctionWML]]) of all the unit's frames.
** '''replace''': replaces the image path function(s) to be used, e.g. "RC(magenta>red)"
** '''add''': adds an image path function without removing any existing ones.
* '''ellipse''': Change the image used for the unit's ellipse.
**'''ellipse''' : the new image to use.
* {{DevFeature1.11}} '''halo''': Change the image used for the unit's halo.
**'''halo''': the new image to use.
* {{DevFeature1.11}} '''overlay''': Change the unit's overlays.
**'''add''': the specified overlay will be added to the unit's overlays. It can be a comma separated list with multiple overlays. ''Note: overlays added in this way cannot be removed by [remove_unit_overlay] until the effect's duration is over.''
**'''replace''': all the unit's overlays will be removed and replaced with the specified one. Again, it can be a comma separated list. ''Note: overlays replaced in this way cannot be modified by [unit_overlay] or [remove_unit_overlay] until the effect's duration is over.''


== Смотрите также ==
* [[UnitTypeWML]]
* [[ReferenceWML]]
* [[AnimationWML]]


[[Category: WML Reference]]
