{{WML Tags}}
== The toplevel [language] tag ==

The contents of the [language] tag associate strings with certain keywords used by the engine and some WML, such as attack types and ranges.

The following keys and tags are recognized in [language] tags:

* '''EASY''': string to associate with the EASY difficulty keyword.
* '''NORMAL''': string to associate with the NORMAL difficulty keyword.
* '''HARD''': string to associate with the HARD difficulty keyword.
* '''NIGHTMARE''': string to associate with the NIGHTMARE difficulty keyword.
* '''liminal_description''': string for the liminal alignment's description.
* '''lawful_description''': string for the lawful alignment's description.
* '''neutral_description''': string for the neutral alignment's description.
* '''chaotic_description''': string for the chaotic alignment's description.
* '''bridge_name''': comma-separated list of names to be used by the feature-labeling function for bridges.
* '''road_name''': comma-separated list of names to be used by the feature-labeling function for roads.
* '''river_name''': comma-separated list of names to be used by the feature-labeling function for rivers.
* '''forest_name''': comma-separated list of names to be used by the feature-labeling function for forests.
* '''lake_name''': comma-separated list of names to be used by the feature-labeling function for lakes.
* '''mountain_name''': comma-separated list of names to be used by the feature-labeling function for mountains.
* '''swamp_name''': comma-separated list of names to be used by the feature-labeling function for rivers.
* '''village_name''': comma-separated list of names to be used by the feature-labeling function for villages.
* '''range_melee''': string to associate with the melee range keyword.
* '''range_ranged''': string to associate with the ranged range keyword.
* '''range_$RANGE''': string to associate with whatever range $RANGE is in actual use. Refer to the [[LanguageWML#Examples|examples section]] for actual uses and examples.
* '''type_$TYPE''': string to associate with whatever type $TYPE is in actual use. Refer to the the [[LanguageWML#Examples|examples section]] for actual uses and examples.

== Examples ==

=== Examples and actual uses of range_$RANGE ===

Example of an actual use in mainline:
 
 [language]
     range_melee= _ "melee"
 [/language]

Example of an association of a string with the keyword for a '''very_long''' range in UMC:
 
 [language]
     range_very_long= _ "very long"
 [/language]

=== Examples and actual uses of type_$TYPE ===

Example of an actual use in mainline:
 
 [language]
     type_arcane= _ "arcane"
 [/language]

Example of an association of a string with the keyword for an '''electric''' type in UMC:
 
 [language]
     type_electric= _ "electric"
 [/language]

== See Also ==
* [[ReferenceWML]]


[[Category: WML Reference]]
