{{WML Tags}}
== The [command] tag ==

The '''[command]''' tag is used to specify an action in a replay.

The following tags are recognized:
* '''[start]''': is used to initialize the replay so that generated random numbers can be saved.
* '''[move]''': the player moved a unit.
** '''[source]''': the location the unit moved to.
** '''[destination]''': the location the unit moved from.
* '''[recruit]''': the player recruited a unit.
** '''value''': the index number of the recruited unit. (Index numbers start at 0 and include all recruitable units in alphabetical order.)
** '''x''' and '''y''': the castle tile the unit is recruited on.
* '''[recall]''': the player recalled a unit. Same keys as [recruit], except that the index is in order of level, followed by required XP to advance.
* '''[attack]''': the player attacked.
** '''weapon''': the index number of the weapon. Weapons are indexed by the unit designer.
** '''[source]''': the location of the attacking unit.
** '''[destination]''': the location of the defending unit.
* '''[end_turn]''': the player ended his turn.
* '''[init_side]''': new turn is starting for a side. This fires begin of turn events.
* '''[fire_event]''': a specific event was raised
** '''raise''': the name of the event
** '''[source]''': the location of the event
** '''[set_variable]''': set WML variable(s) before firing
*** '''name''': the name of the variable
*** '''value''': a string value (literal)
* '''[advance_unit]''': a unit was leveled by WML. ([unstore_unit] for example)
* '''[choose]''': the player was given an option by the scenario or for an advancement path.
** '''value''': the index number of the option chosen. Index numbers are given by the scenario designer.
* '''[random]''': if the action required a random number, this describes the random number that was generated. In 1.0.x, nested '''[random]''' tags are used and only one is allowed at this level. In 1.1.x, a '''[random]''' tag is used at this level for each value.
** '''value''': list of generated random values. In 1.1.x only a single value can be used.
** '''[results]''': used for '''[attack]''' commands. Describes the results of the battle.
*** '''chance''': the percent chance that the attack had to hit.
*** '''damage''': the amount of damage that the attack would do if it hits.
*** '''dies''': whether the defender dies from the hit.
*** '''hits''': whether the attack hits.
** '''[random]''': additional lists of generated random values. '''[random]''' has the same format as the first '''[random]''' and describes the other numbers that were generated. .

== See Also ==
* [[SavefileWML]]
* [[ReferenceWML]]


[[Category: WML Reference]]
