{{WML Tags}}

From [[FilterWML]], this is the standard way of filtering on sides. Often a SSF needs to be included in a [filter_side] tag. There are however also many tags that take the SSF tags and keys directly as arguments.

The following attributes and sub-tags are permitted:

* '''side''': filter matches only if side number is contained in a comma-separated list. Note that as opposed to the usual inline side= key in wml action tags, which defaults to 1, the side= key in a SSF defaults to all sides (similarly, the id= key in SUFs defaults to all ids)
**{{DevFeature1.11}}: This key accepts ranges (i.e. "1,3-4,6")
* '''[has_unit]''':  
**'''[[StandardUnitFilter]]''': filter matches only if side controls a unit matched by it
**'''search_recall_list''': (boolean yes|no, default no) whether to include recall list units when trying to match this [[StandardUnitFilter]] against a unit

* '''team_name''': The currently filtered side matches only if this passed team_name is contained in its (the filtered side's) team_name= string. Note that a side can be allied/on the same team like 2 (more...) other sides which can be enemies at the same time. (achieved by defining a side via [side]team_name=1,2 etc.)

* '''[enemy_of]''': The currently filtered side must be an enemy of all of the sides matching this StandardSideFilter for it to match. If this inner StandardSideFilter matches no sides, the outer filter also doesn't. Note that a side is not an enemy of itself.
**StandardSideFilter tags and keys

* '''[allied_with]''': The currently filtered side must be allied with all of the sides matching this StandardSideFilter for it to match. If this inner StandardSideFilter matches no sides, the outer filter also doesn't. Note that a side is allied with itself.
**StandardSideFilter tags and keys


Also, [and], [or], and [not] subfilters are supported.


Interaction of SSF and side= in tags like [remove_shroud] :
In case that inline side= and [filter_side] are given, inline side= is ignored and [filter_side]side= gets priority:

selects side 4 and 5:
 [remove_shroud]
   side=2
   [filter_side]
     side=4,5  
   [/filter_side]
 [remove_shroud]
