== Useful WML Fragments ==

Most of the things found here are macros (see [[PreprocessorRef]]) that must be copied into a scenario file or another file included first by the campaign, and then used in the scenario (or multiplayer map). Remember that a macro cannot be used at a point before it is defined.

'''Note: some of the code here is outdated or otherwise poor. It's not advisable to blindly copy-paste code from here and expect it to work on recent Wesnoth versions or assume that the recent versions don't support a simpler and less hacky way of doing the same thing.'''

Some things '''not''' to do here:
* Don't add macros that duplicate things in [http://www.wesnoth.org/macro-reference.xhtml the core macro library].
* Don't add macros that are trivial syntax shortcuts.
* Don't add macros that generate unbalanced syntax fragments.

Try to avoid adding pages here. It is better to find a category in which your code fits and add it to that page.

=== Logic Structure Macros ===
*[[WML Utilities]]: Macros to assist other macros. Overlay with Filter. Determine Opposite Coordinates. Find nearest hex(es)

=== Campaign Tools ===
*[[AlternateToDWML]]: Macros for alternate time-of-day schemes, including per-hour time-of-day.

==== RPG Tools ====
*[[A Shop Like Thing]]: How to add even more RPG elements to your scenarios.
*[[CutsceneWML]]: Fixed MOVE_TO event (uses FIND_NEARBY from [[WML Utilities]]), move + exit to recall list, define character dialogue and a "main character", grant unlimited moves.*
*[[An effect that changes icons]]: Wanted to change some attack's icon when the unit took an object, but there was no set_icon variable accepted? This enables it!

==== Music Tools ====
*[[WML Musical Moods]]: Groups the Wesnoth music (as of 1.7.x) into "moods" and defines macros for playing randomly songs from these pools and for quickly switching music.

==== Unit Tools ====
*[[WML Abilities]]: Knockback. Charm. Bloodlust.

==== Item Tools ====
*[[DroppableItem]]: Macros to drop items. Currently only macros for dropping items on unit death including a permenant item that can be picked up, and dropped, multiple times by different units. Also a macro removing objects from units.
*[[Removing Items]]: A macro that removes objects from a unit.

==== Map Tools ====
*[[FloodWML]]: Macros to create a flood of a certain terrain type spreading across the map.

=== Advanced WML ===
*[[Advanced WML]]: Store Reachable Locations.

=== Templates ===
*[[WML Templates]]: Generic campaign, scenario and unit templates. <b>Obsolete; most of these won't work right.</b>

== See Also ==

* [[ReferenceWML]]


[[Category: UsefulWMLFragments|*]]
